READING PASSAGE 1

You should spend about 20 minutes on Questions 1-13, which are based on Reading

Passage 1 below.

The natural of Yawning

A. While fatigue, drowsiness or boredom easily bring on yawns, scientists are
discovering there is more to yawning than most people think. Not much is known
about why we yawn or if it serves any useful function. People have already learned
that yawning can be infectious. “Contagious yawning” is the increase in likelihood that
you will yawn after watching or hearing someone else yawn, but not much is known
about the under-lying causes, and very little research has been done on the subject.
However, scientists at the University of Albany, as well as the University of Leeds and
the University of London have done some exploration.

B. It is commonly believed that people yawn as a result of being sleepy or tired because
they need oxygen. However, the latest research shows that a yawn can help cool the
brain and help it work more effectively, which is quite different from the popular belief
that yawning promotes sleep and is a sign of tiredness. Dr. Andrew Gallup and his
colleagues at the University of Albany in New York State said their experiments on 44
students showed that raising or lowering oxygen and carbon dioxide levels in the blood
did not produce that reaction. In the study participants were shown videos of people
laughing and yawning, and researchers counted how many times the volunteers
responded to the “contagious yawns”. The researchers found that those who breathed
through the nose rather than the mouth were less likely to yawn when watching a
video of other people yawning. The same effect was found among those who held a
cool pack to their forehead, whereas those who held a warm pack yawned while
watching the video. Since yawning occurs when brain temperature rises, sending cool
blood to the brain serves to maintain the best levels of mental efficiency.

C. Yawning is universal to humans and many animals. Cats, dogs and fish yawn just like
humans do, but they yawn spontaneously. Only humans and chimpanzees, our closest
relatives in the animal kingdom, have shown definite contagious yawning. Though
much of yawning is due to suggestibility, sometimes people do not need to actually
see a person yawn to involuntarily yawn themselves: hearing someone yawning or
even reading about yawning can cause the same reaction.

D. However, contagious yawning goes beyond mere suggestibility. Recent studies
show that contagious yawning is also related to our predisposition toward empathy—
the ability to understand and connect with others’ emotional states. So empathy is
important, sure, but how could it possibly be related to contagious yawning? Leave it
up to psychologists at Leeds University in England to answer that. In their study,
researchers selected 40 psychology students and 40 engineering students. Generally,  
psychology students are more likely to feel empathy for others, while engineering
students are thought to be concerned with objects and science. Each student was
made to wait individually in a waiting room, along with an undercover assistant who
yawned 10 times in as many minutes. The students were then administered an
emotional quotient test: students were shown 40 images of eyes and asked what
emotion each one displayed. The results of the test support the idea that contagious
yawning is linked to empathy. The psychology students—whose future profession
requires them to focus on others—yawned contagiously an average of 5.5 times in the
waiting room and scored 28 out of 40 on the emotional test. The engineering
students—who tend to focus on things like numbers and systems—yawned an average
of 1.5 times and scored 25.5 out of 40 on the subsequent test. The difference doesn’t
sound like much, but researchers consider it significant. Strangely enough, women,
who are generally considered more emotionally attuned, didn’t score any higher than
men.

E. Another study, led by Atsushi Senju, a cognitive researcher at the University of
London, also sought to answer that question. People with autism disorder are
considered to be developmentally impaired emotionally. Autistics have trouble
connecting with others and find it difficult to feel empathy. Since autistics have
difficulty feeling empathy, then they shouldn’t be susceptible to contagious yawning.
To find out, Senju and his colleagues placed 49 kids aged 7 to 15 in a room with a
television. 24 of the test subjects had been diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder,
the other 25 were non-autistic kids. The test subjects were shown short clips of people
yawning as well as clips of people opening their mouths but not yawning. While the
kids with autism had the same lack of reaction to both kinds of clips, the non-autistic
kids yawned more after the clips of people yawning.

F. There also have been studies that suggest yawning, especially psychological
“contagious” yawning, may have developed as a way of keeping a group of animals
alert and bonding members of a group into a more unit one. If an animal is drowsy or
bored, it may not be as alert as it should to be prepared to spring into action and its
yawning is practically saying, “Hey, I need some rest, you stay awake”. Therefore, a
contagious yawn could be an instinctual reaction to a signal from one member of the
herd reminding the others to stay alert when danger comes. So the theory suggests
evidence that yawning comes from the evolution of early humans to be ready to
physically exert themselves at any given moment.

Question 1 - 5
Read paragraphs A—F. Which paragraph contains the following information?
NB You may use any letter more than once.

1 Humans’ imaginations can cause yawning.

2 Research shows that yawning is closely related to occupations.

3 An overview of the latest research in yawning.

4 Yawning is used to regulate brain temperature.

5 Scientists discovered some evidence disproving the early understanding of
yawning.

Questions 6 - 9
Match each of the following research results with the university which it comes from
NB You may use any letter more than once.

                        A. University of Albany
                        B. University of Leeds
                        C. University of London

6 There is no gender difference in the cause of yawning.
7 People with certain disorders are less likely to be affected by other people
yawning.
8 Yawning is associated with the way people breathe.
9 People who are trained to feel empathy for others are more likely to yawn than
those who are untrained.

Write your answers in boxes 10-13 on your answer sheet.

Another theory shows that yawning is used for 10...................individuals into a tighter
social unit. Alternatively, yawning can help increase alertness of group members in
case 11 ............ is close. For example, yawning signals that a member of the group
needs some 12 ...................and requires the others to stay aware of the surrounding
situation. This theory proves that yawning is only a spontaneous behaviour resulting
from some part of a simple 13...................system in early humans.
